Hello, everyone.
So in this video, what we'll do is we'll download and install Visual Studio code on Mac and then we'll
install a couple of extensions as well to get it going.
So I open up your favorite browser and go to code Visual Studio, or you could just type Visual Studio
code and in Google and Press Enter and it'll take you there.
So you're going to get to a page, something like this.
This is a microsoft product.
So we're here on this website and what you want to do is you can click right here and download the Mac
Universal build.
I'd rather not do that.
I'd rather download the specific build for my Mac.
As many of you know, Mac now comes in the Apple, Silicon and Intel version, so may as well grab the
one you need.
And Visual Studio code supports both, which is really nice.
So right now I'm on an Apple silicon iMac, so I'm just going to select download over here on the right.
And you can see here where the max stuff is.
You can download the universal build, which will run on both the Intel build or the Apple silicon build.
So you know what you've got if you've got a mac.
Like I said, I've got the Apple silicon right now, so I'm just going to click on here and we'll get
the download coming.
And I'm just going to open it with the archive utility.
You can save it and then open it there as well.
So I'm just going to click okay and give it a minute to download.
And once it's downloaded, it should open up.
There's the archive utility and it opened up in my other window.
So let me drag that over here and that over from my other monitor.
And you can see it's downloaded and extracted it.
So all you want to do now is just want to click on Visual Studio code here and drag it over to your
applications, just like the.
That's it.
Now, what we want to do is we want to run it.
So I'm just going to click on applications and scroll down until you find it.
And it is right there.
So I'm just going to run that.
Of course, first time you run it on Mac, depending on your security settings and your privacy settings,
you may get a message like this or you may not even let you run it and you'll have to go and let it
run.
But again, if you're a mac user, you know what to do.
I'm just going to select Open.
And Visual Studio code opened up and enlarge this a little bit.
And we've got this big old screen here with nothing going on.
We've got some options over here on the left side.
And I'm just going to close this little guy up right here.
So this font is pretty small, so I'm just going to press command plus to make everything a little bit
bigger for you guys and you can come through here and see what's going on.
You can pick a theme.
I'm just going to stick with this dark theme.
There's a lot of themes that you can choose.
It talks about coding in different programming languages, switching from other editors and so forth.
I'm not going to do any of that.
I'm just going to keep it default.
So I'm just going to close this little window up right here.
What we have to do is we have to tell Visual Studio code that we're going to do C++.
And the way we do that is we add an extension and this bottom icon right here is the extensions.
And what I want to do is I want to select that.
And you can see that I've got nothing installed right now obviously because I just installed VS code,
so there are no default extensions installed.
But what I want to do is install the C++ extension right here where it says popular ones, it's right
there.
That's one of the real popular ones.
If it doesn't show up here for you, you could just type C++ up here and press enter and it will find
it.
And it's this guy right here.
If you just select it and this is what it's supposed to look like, you have this purple circle here
with CC plus.
Plus, it says Microsoft.
It's got over 20 million downloads.
I don't know how many downloads it's going to have when you guys watch this video, which may be a long
time from now.
Maybe so that's what this is the one we want to install.
And in order to install it, all we need to do is just click install right here and it says installing
and it's doing it down here.
Just let it do its thing.
And once it's finished, we are done installing that extension so we can erase that.
And the next one we want to do is we want to type code.
LL be.
Now LDP.
Sorry.
And this is the one that we want to install next.
These are the only two extensions that we're going to install.
There are a lot of other ones out there.
You've got CMA Code Runner.
There's a whole bunch of them that just make things a lot more complicated than they need to be.
So this is the one that allows us to run the ADB debugger, which is the debugger that we're going to
be using in this class.
And I'll let you run that in Visual Studio code.
And it works really well, and it also supports Apple Silicon, which is pretty cool.
So if you've got your Intel version or the Apple Silicon version, that will work.
So I'm just going to select it.
And you can see if you look at the Changelog, you can see that right there where it says new on version
162 added support for Apple silicon.
So that's pretty cool.
So if again, if you've got Intel or Apple silicon, this will work just fine.
So I'm going to select install here as well.
And just let it do its thing.
Be patient.
Don't interrupt it.
And that's it.
I'm going to close this up and I'm going to go back to my explorer right here.
What we're going to do now is we're going to open up a folder.
We're going to set up a little folder structure, and then we're going to configure C++ in Visual Studio
code so that we can build and run programs.
So I'll see you all in the next video.